A Method of Confession based on the Four Powers
by Ngulchu Dharmabhadra

Namo gurave!
The following is a method of confession based on the four powers:
Refuge & Bodhicitta
lama könchok sum la kyab su chi
I take refuge in the guru and Three Jewels,
dro la pen chir sangye drubpar shok
And vow to attain awakening for beings’ benefit!
With this, take refuge and generate bodhicitta.
Invocation
lama yidam chok sum kadö ché
Guru, yidam, three supreme ones and attendants,
chen drang dün gyi namkhar shyukpar gyur
I invite you all: take your place in the sky before me!
With this, issue the invitation.
Seven-Branch Practice
khakhyab shying gi chak ö tamché la
All those worthy of reverence throughout the universe,
yönten shying du lhakpar möpé lö
Before you all, with devotion for these fields of qualities,
dro kün shying dul drang nyé lü trul té
I and all beings emanate as many bodies as there are atoms,
sangye shying tar taktu gü chaktsal
And respectfully offer continuous prostration everywhere—even in the farthest buddhafield,
chöpa kün bul dikpa tadak shak
We present every form of offering, confess all misdeeds,
gé la yi rang chökhor korwar kul
Rejoice in virtue, request the turning of the Dharma-wheel,
nya ngen mi da shyukpar solwa deb
Implore you not to pass into nirvāṇa,
getsa dzok jang nyi di ngowar gyi
And dedicate sources of virtue to perfect awakening!
With this, offer the pure seven branches.
1. Power of Support
tsowo gyalwa drowé gön
Leader, victorious one, protector of all,
drowa kyobpé dön tsönpa
Diligent in the task of guarding beings,
tobchen jikpa kün sel la
Mighty one who banishes all fears,
dering nyi né kyab su chi
From this day on, I take refuge in you,
dé yi tuk su chüpé chö
And in the Dharma that you have realized,
khorwa jikpa selwa dang
Which banishes all the terrors of saṃsāra,
changchub sempé tsok la yang
In the hosts of bodhisattvas too,
deshyin yangdak kyab su chi
Likewise, I take refuge.
ngönché khyé kyi ka lé dé
In the past, I transgressed your words,
dani jikpa ché tong né
But now that I perceive the dangers,
khyé la kyab su chi lak kyi
I take refuge in you:
jikpa nyurdu sal du sol
Swiftly banish all these fears, I pray!
This provides the power of support.
2. Antidotal Power
drenpa nyammé shakyé gyalpo dang
Unequalled guide, king of the Śākyas,
dorjé nyingpö rabtu jompa sok
Vajra Essence who Utterly Subdues
sangye so nga deshek pawo dün
And the remainder of the thirty-five buddhas, together with the seven heroic sugatas,
nyikmé gönpo deshyin shekpa gyé
Eight tathāgatas, protectors in this time of degeneration,
kalzang drenpa tubpé nyima tong
Thousand sun-like sages, guides for the Fortunate Aeon,
marmé dzé dang tubwang jam gön sok
Dīpaṃkara, lord of sages, protector Maitreya,
dü sum gyalwa sé ché tamché la
And others—buddhas of the three times, together with your heirs,
chaktsal chö ching nying né kyab su chi
We pay homage to you, make offerings and sincerely take refuge:
dakchak ngensong sipé jik lé kyob
Protect us from the lower realms and threats of existence!
This provides the antidotal power.
3. Power of Repentance
chok dü küntu shyukpé gyal nam dang
Victorious buddhas of every place and time,
tukjé cheden gyalsé pawo nam
And great compassionate bodhisattva warriors,
tsewé tuk kyi dak la gong su sol
Consider me with your loving wisdom minds.
dak gi tokmé dü né danté bar
Throughout beginningless time until now,
duk sum wang gi tsammé nyewa nga
Overpowered by the three poisons, I have committed the five boundless crimes,
mi gé chu dang chok sum kor trok sok
And ten unwholesome actions, plundered the property of the Three Jewels,
jikrung ngensong sum dang mikhompé
And carried out acts that lead to rebirth in fearsome destinies
né su kyé gyur mi gedik pé lé
And inopportune states—both naturally negative deeds
ché dang rangshyin khana mato ba
And those that involve an infringement of the rules.
gyi dang gyi tsal jesu yirangwa
I have committed, requested and rejoiced at such acts.
nö shying gyöpé chab ching mi bepar
With regret and remorse, I openly acknowledge all, withholding nothing.
jik shing trakpé gönpo nam kyi drung
Anxiously, I join my palms together before these great protectors,
go sum güpé talmo jar jé té
Expressing devotion and respect physically, verbally and mentally.
sampa takpé yang dang yang du shak
And sincerely and repeatedly, I offer this confession:
tsewé tuk kyi nongpar zung du sol
In your loving wisdom, forgive these wrongs, I pray!
This provides the power of repentance.
4. Power of Restraint
pongpé nyen chok lumé kyab kyi pul
Supreme remedy in deprivation, most excellent, unfailing refuge,
dü sum deshek sé ché nam la
Bliss-gone buddhas of the three times together with your heirs,
chok tu güpé taljar solwa ni
With the utmost devotion, I join my palms together and pledge:
ngensong ngendro mikhom gyé nam su
That which leads to the various miseries and all that is unwished for
mindö dukngal natsok jungwé go
In the lower realms, evil destinies and eight inopportune states
lü ngak yi kyi diktung mi gé lé
Is non-virtuous action—downfalls and harmful deeds of body, speech and mind,
deng né chinché shintu trawa yang
So from this moment on, I shall refrain from the slightest non-virtue,
mi gyi sok dang dö té yangdak dom
Even at the cost of my own life—this is my commitment!
With this, the power of refraining from wrongdoing, confess and pledge with all four powers
complete.
Dedication
gewa di yi tserab tamché du
Through this virtue, throughout all my lives,
manor lam tön tek chok shenyen gyi
By a spiritual friends of the supreme vehicle
dralwa mepar jesu dzinpa dang
Show me the unerring path and guide me inseparably
sung gi dütsi ngommé tungwar shok
As I insatiably imbibe the nectar of the teachings.

dé yi tu lé ngejung changchub sem
Through this power, may I perfect the practices
yangdak ta dang chin druk rimpa nyi
Of renunciation, the mind of awakening,
khor dang chepé nyamlen tarchin té
Authentic view, six perfections and two phases,
tob chu ngawé gopang nyur tob shok
Together with all that accompany them.

lo zang dorjé chang chenpo tsongkhapé
May all be auspicious so that I spontaneously accomplish twofold benefit
nyengyü mengak nyingpo tartukpa
Through the profound path of guru and deity yoga,
zablam lama lha yi naljor gyi
The ultimate essence of the whispered pith instructions
dön nyi lhün gyi drubpé tashi shok
In the lineage of the great vajra-holder Tsongkhapa Lobzang Drakpa!

This confession and pledge based on the four powers as antidotes to wrongs and downfalls,
Which accords with the intent of the king of Dharma, Paṇchen Chökyi Gyaltsen,
And is arranged in three sections—preliminary main part and conclusion—for ease of practice,
Was set down in writing by the old monk Dharmabhadra.
Śubham.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019.